.. _whatsnew_0180:

v0.1.8 (master)
------------------------

* Added properties to the PerformanceMonitoring object to return the following:

  * Boolean mask, ``pm.mask``.  Indicates data that failed a quality control test. This
    replaces the method ``get_test_results_mask``(API change).
  * Cleaned data, ``pm.cleaned_data``. Data that failed a quality control test are replaced by NaN.

* Added the ability to run quality control tests as individual functions.  
  These functions allow the user to use Pecos without creating a PerformanceMonitoring object.  
  Each function returns cleaned data, a boolean mask, and a summary of quality control
  test results.
* io and graphics functions were updated to use specific components of the 
  PerformanceMonitoring class (instead of requiring an instance of the class).
  This changes the API for
  ``write_monitoring_report``,
  ``write_dashboard``, and
  ``plot_test_results``. 
* Filenames are now an optional parameter in io and graphics functions, this changes the API for 
  ``write_metrics``, 
  ``write_test_results``, and
  ``plot_test_results``. 
* Updated metrics:

  * Added time_derivative which returns a derivative timeseries for each column of data
  * ``qci``, ``rmse``, ``time_integral``, ``probability_of_detection``, and 
    ``false_alarm_rate`` now return 1 value per column of data (API change)
  * pv metrics were also updated to return 1 value per column (API change)
  * Deprecated per_day option. Data can be grouped by custom time intervals before 
    computing metrics (API change)
* Timestamp indexes down to millisecond resolution are supported
* Added additional helper functions in pecos.utils to convert to/from datetime indexes.
  Methods ``get_elapsed_time`` and ``get_clock_time`` were removed from the PerformanceMonitoring class (API change).
* Added Python 3.7 tests
* Updated examples, tests, and documentation
